---
title: Making a report
date: 2024-04-08
math: true
image:
  placement: 2
  caption: 'Image credit: [**John Moeses Bauan**](https://unsplash.com/photos/OGZtQF8iC0g)'
---

## RULES

The basic principles for preparing reports on practice are given in the Organization Standard “Procedure for preparing methodological developments, coursework and final qualified papers.” The procedure was developed on the basis of State standards for document preparation (GOST 1.5-2001, GOST 7.1-2003).

The text of the internship report must be typed on a computer in Times New Roman font size 14 pt. (When formatting the text, the text editor Microsoft Word is used). It is recommended to reduce the font used in illustrative material (tables and figures) to 12 pt. The line spacing in the main text is one and a half. In illustrative material, it is recommended to make the line spacing single. Page fields should be:

- left margin - 30 mm;

- right margin - 10 mm;

- upper and lower margins - 20 mm.

Each paragraph must begin with a red line. Paragraph indentation is 12.5 mm. from the left border of the text.

Each section of the report must begin on a new page. The names of the structural elements of the report “CONTENTS”, “INTRODUCTION”, “CONCLUSION”, “REFERENCES”, “APPENDIX”, as well as section headings should be printed in capital letters and located in the middle of the line. Sections are numbered with Arabic numerals (1, 2, 3). There is no period at the end of headings.

Section headings may be highlighted in bold. The use of underlining in headings, the use of two or more types of emphasis in headings (for example, italics and bold, italics and another color different from the main text), word wrapping in chapter headings, and the use of non-standard characters in the report text, including Abbreviations are used in headings. In the text of the report, abbreviations of terms are allowed only after introducing a meaningful definition of the term. All pages of the report (except appendices) must be numbered, starting with the “Introduction”, which is numbered 3. Page numbers are located in the center of the bottom of the sheet without a period.

Illustrative material (tables, figures, formulas) is included in the report in order to visualize the argumentation and substantiate the conclusions obtained by the student. Thus, only the material that contributes to a better substantiation of the conclusions obtained by the student is placed in the main part of the report. Tables, reporting forms and other factual material, which represents the initial data on the basis of which the research was carried out, are not included in the main text of the work, but can be included in the appendix. It is recommended to include tables and figures based on original factual data directly in the main text of the report.

Illustrations are numbered within sections. The illustration number consists of the section number and the serial number of the illustration, separated by a dot. There is no period at the end. If the table is borrowed from a book or article by another author, a link to it at the end of the title should be provided, taking into account the requirements of these guidelines. It is not allowed to leave empty cells in table columns. If the relevant data is missing, a dash is entered in the column. Units of measurement must be indicated for digital tabular data. If the table data has different units of measurement, then they are indicated in the corresponding headings of the columns or rows of the table. If all tabular data have the same unit of measurement, then this unit, starting with the preposition “in”, is given above the table after the name separated by commas (for example, in thousand rubles, in hectares, in sq. m., in percent and so on.).

If necessary, the table can be moved to another page. In this case, the following design option is used. The headings of the columns (or rows) of the table are numbered, and on the next page the text of the headings is not repeated, but only the corresponding column (row) number is entered. Above the continuation of the table, the words “Continuation of table 1.1” are printed at the top right. The table name is not repeated on the new page.It is not allowed to start a table at the bottom of the page if after the name of the table only the header part remains, or the header part plus one or two lines of content, and the main part of the table ends up on the next sheet. It is not allowed to move a table to the next page if one or two lines of table content are transferred to the next page. In this case, you should either slightly reduce the font size used in the table so that the table fits entirely on the previous sheet; or slightly increase the spacing between the rows of the table so that the table is distributed more evenly across the pages. Pictures include drawings, diagrams, diagrams, graphs, etc. The placement of figures in the report is the same as for other illustrative material, that is, either immediately after the link to it, or on the page closest to this link. Drawings should be placed in the text so that they can be viewed without rotating the work. All figures must be numbered within sections in Arabic numerals: Figure 2.1. Immediately after the designation of the figure numbering there is a meaningful title. The figure number and title are placed at the bottom of the figure, centered relative to the figure.

Equations and formulas should be separated from the text on a separate line. In formulas, the designations established by the relevant state standards and reflected in the format of the formulas should be used as symbols.

Literary sources used in the process of writing the report are indicated at the end of the work before the application.

An example of a bibliographic description:

Regulatory legal acts Constitution of the Russian Federation: official. text. - M.: Marketing, 2017. - 39 p. Family Code of the Russian Federation: [federal. law: adopted by the State. Duma 8 Dec. 1995: as of Jan 3 2001]. - St. Petersburg: Stone Country, 2001. - 94 p.

A one-volume book of two or more authors: Abalakin V.K., Aksenov E.P., Grebenikov E.A., Demin V.G., Ryabov Yu.A. Reference Guide to Celestial Mechanics and Astrodynamics / ed. G.N. Duboshina. M.: Nauka, 1976. 864 p. Marshak I.S., Doinikov A.S., Zhiltsov V.P., Kirsanov V.P., Rovinsky R.E., Shchukin L.N., Feigenbaum M.G. Pulsed light sources / under general. ed. I.S. Marshak. 2nd ed., revised. and additional M.: Energy, 1978. 472 p. Translated book: Sebehey V. Theory of orbits: the limited three-body problem: trans. from English / ed. G.N. Duboshina. M.: Nauka, 1982. 656 p. [Victor G. Szebehely. Theory of Orbits: the Restricted Problem of Three Bodies. New York: Academic Press, 1967]. Date K.J. Introduction to database systems: trans. from English M.: Williams, 2006. 1328 p. [Date C.J. An Introduction to Database Systems. 8th ed. AddisonWesley, 2003. 1024 p.]



The report does not recommend retelling the contents of textbooks, teaching aids, normative and specialized literature. This information must be processed and presented in the content of the work. Direct borrowing from sources without reference to the author or regulatory document is unacceptable. When using figures, statements from official documents, quotations and other published materials, the student must indicate the source and provide a reference in square brackets. Example: [12, p. 34], which means: 12 - source number in the list of references, 34 - page number. The annex contains materials that complement the text of the report. For example, the data used for calculations; interim tables and diagrams that influenced the construction of the final tables and figures; intermediate calculations showing the dynamics of development of the student’s evidence; description of algorithms; tables and figures of non-standard format, etc. Applications are placed in the work after the list of references. Each application is numbered sequentially with Arabic numerals. If the application is more than one page, then it is transferred to another page and is indicated at the top as “Continuation of the application...”. The text of the report must contain links to all applications. For example, the data used for calculations; interim tables and diagrams that influenced the construction of the final tables and figures; intermediate calculations showing the dynamics of development of the student’s evidence; description of algorithms; tables and figures of non-standard format, etc. Applications are placed in the work after the list of references. Each application is numbered sequentially with Arabic numerals. If the application is more than one page, then it is transferred to another page and is indicated at the top as “Continuation of the application...”. The text of the report must contain links to all applications. The location of appendices at the end of the document should correspond to the order in which links to them appear in the text. Each application starts on a new page. In the upper right corner of the page the word “APPENDIX” is indicated and its serial number is indicated (for example, “APPENDIX 1”). Each attachment must have a title, which appears on the next line after the word "APPENDIX", and this title is centered relative to the text. If the documents are large, they should be folded in A4 format. In this case, one page of such a non-standard size is numbered as one page of the application (without taking into account its addition).
